---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Scoping Out Projects
---

This week we documented a lot of projects to potentially create contributions for. I reviewed a few of them myself such as Alex and Next.js. In order to decide what my interests were, I spent some time looking through the evaluations and double checking many of the links that were posted. 
<!--more-->
I was a bit disappointed with the fact that many of the projects that I've heard of previously or have an interest in were difficult to contribute to, either because they were too complex in scope, requiring too much prior knowledge or extensive use of the project, or because they weren't very active or had some other red flag.

For example, I was really interested in Godot having used it prior and it being related to game development. But, unfortunately, it seems difficult to contribute to, with a lot of really specific problems that require in-depth knowledge about, not just how to use Godot, but how the internals of the engine works.

In terms of what projects I did have an interest in, I'm most interested in p5.js and FreeCodeCamp. I've always had an interest in learning tools for STEM and both of these projects ended up being evaluated very positively. I used to tutor middle-schoolers using tools or resources like these and, because of that, these projects have a bit of importance to me. I've done a decent about of JavaScript development in the past and I would like to work more on it in the future as I hope to one day build a fully customized portfolio website for myself, but I feel that I need more practice with front-end development. 

My biggest challenge would probably be allocating time, not into the code, but into the process of open source development. I'm afraid that I might be slow on the uptake and that the experienced open-source software developers would have little patience with me if I make a mistake and have to spend time remedying it. Because of this, I'm expecting a lot of rejection when asking to take issues or towards my inquires towards their software. However, the only solution is to persist regardless and try my best.
