---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Industry Usage of Open Source & Project Continuation
---

I am surprised at how many companies nowadays are using open source software. Thinking about it a bit more, I'm not actually sure why I'm surprised though, since much of the software I've used in my daily life ending up being open-source, a fact that I would have never found out if I hadn't taken this class. Open source certainly offers a lot of benefits, the user-driven communities for example, can skyrocket productivity and also takes away a lot of overhead from training the labor force. The talk that mentioned this also mentioned something interesting that I've never really thought about which was knowledge portability.

<!--more-->
Being a student, I've jumped from many different projects to projects and it always takes time when there's new software or methodology to be learned. Open-source software will, of course, be much more commonly used than anything proprietary and, and not only that, many more people might feel inclined to pour hours into learning these software very deeply, which I think could be deeply valuable to companies. And that's just one example, overall, using open-source could mean the world of software is much more flexible and progresses much faster.

---

So far for our contributions to Godot, recently it has been a bit slow. Overall, we've made a few contributions of varying importance, some of which where code contributions. I am surprised at how many small parts we have found that we could work on with documentation and in all of Godot's non-main repositories. 

Progress has kind of been steady, however, my biggest challenge is that I'm unconfident that our impact has been significant. I've created some benchmarks and they were approved and I've been telling my team to work on benchmarks as well since that aspect of Godot development has been relatively neglected, but I feel that those elements are neglected because they're relatively unimportant to the project as a whole, even though benchmarks are a code contribution that took a large portion of my time to create.

Part of this, I wonder if it is the result of Godot being a fairly large project and having a smooth workflow, leading to most big issues getting fixed quickly. To be honest, I could continue to create benchmarks and get a lot of PRs through this method, but I wonder about how actually helpful that is. Currently, I have found something different to work on: the project demos, which need manual conversions from Godot 3 to Godot 4. Hopefully, working on this will help me look at Godot with fresher eyes and find more opportunities to help.
