---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Git, Github and Extension Development
---

This week, we learned how Git works and also started work on our Firefox extension. Everytime I join a new computer science class, they always seem to teach Github again to varying degrees of success. The exercises for the Github practice were alright but I've used Github and version control too often in the past for it to be of much use to me.

<!--more-->

In the past year, I've been using Github Desktop to handle my Github version control and it's been wonderful. I know that it's not completely reliable in certain cases, such as when I have to use a virtual machine, but it's such a time saver. Of course, for these exercises, I did practice editing the files and handling version control completely using Command Prompt since it's good to know the terminal commands for Git.

As for the extension, progress has been made towards the end of the week. We choose to create a joke extension that put the face of a popular Twitch streamer over all Youtube thumbnails. It seemed like a good balance between something new and kind of challenging, while being simple enough that we already had an idea for the steps neede to achieve the functionality. This extension is based on another pre-existing extension called MrBeastify but to make sure that we do something different, we are also choosing to add a popup to the extension where you can toggle this functionality on and off. So far, I have created the base files and the popup widget, but have also contributed to the .js files that actually handle overlaying the thumbnail images.