---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - What is Open Source?
---

I initially assumed that any project that was public avaliable to use or modify could be considered "open-source", but I now know that there's a specific lisence that is required for something to actually be open source. This leads me to wonder however, why and how do people even start open-source projects? It seems like a lot of effort to maintain and continue to develop on open-source projects and the return on these projects doesn't seem very high. While not all, a lot of open source projects that I know of usually ask for donations or something similar in order to monetize, so I wonder if how people remain motivated working on these projects. Not only that, if the project is popular or complex, it requires effort to moderate and secure, otherwise potentially it could be vunerable to attacks or malicious intent, etc. These issues with open source obviously require a cost, so who typically is funding this cost?
I wanted to join this class to not only get hopefully get an answer to these questions but also inspire me to explore and innovate in the world of open source. I had tried to develop open-source before and I found it difficult to maintain effort on my open source projects unrelated to school, so I'm hoping this class will give me some direction to better work with the subject.

<!--more-->

## Projects:
### Firefox:
I use Firefox as my default browser because I prefer it's security and how it feels to use. But thinking about it more after starting this class, I realize the reason why Firefox so many features I prefer over other browsers is probably because it is open-source and that constant development and contributions form many people creates not only new features but frequent updates to said features.
### React:
React is what I ususally use for coding most of my web-based projects. It was part of my first experience in Javascript and was a big part of the bulk of software development I did during my first two years in college.
### GIMP
GIMP is an image editing tool I used to use before I acquired the ability to use Photoshop and other similar photo-editing software. I used to draw a lot and when I was younger, I didn't have money to buy close-source digital art software.
### Blender
Blender is a 3D modeling software I have recently started learning. I've always had an interest in working with 3D games and even though I've programmed 3D games prior, I didn't really dabble in the art side.

``
