---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Group Projects Start!
---

This week we picked our project: Godot! The reason we picked this was because our group is really interested in game engines and game development as a whole. However, we were initially a bit doubtful of how much we would actually be able to contribute to Godot since our initial evaluation of the project wasn't super positive.
<!--more-->
Godot has a lot of potential issues to be worked on and is a generally extremely friendly and active Open Source project. However, there weren't a lot of the issues marked 'good-first-issue' or a lot of the issues seemed quite complex and not really suitable for people without in depth knowledge of the engine already. Because of this, we considered some other game adjacent projects such as p5.js, which we later decided against because it was more library development focused. Ultimately, we decided to stick with Godot because of the initial attitude we encountered when interacting with Godot community members and because worst case, we could start with some easier documentation issues before trying our hand at the harder stuff.

People who work on open source are really respectable, after taking this course, I've realized that a lot of software I use in my day-to-day is actually open source, and I would have never noticed before. I'm hopeful that in the future I'd be able to meet with some of these people who are not only driven to solve problems on their own but are willing to share these projects with the world. 