---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - The Cathedral and the Bazaar
---
Reflect on our discussion about the lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar. Was your choice of favorite lesson affected by the discussion and opinions voiced by other students in the class? Also reflect on your group's progress. What are some challenges that you (as a group) need to overcome? What are some challenges that you (as an individual) need to overcome?

The Cathedral and the Bazaar metaphor on building software as a "cathedral" versus the creation of software as an open "bazaar" development approach was very interesting, certainly, there are benefits to either method, but the thing of most note that stood out to me about the 'bazar' method was the sense of community and the results of community. 

<!--more-->
In a monolithic structure, the 'cathedral' process is closed off only to a select few. Community is probably not as big of a part of this method and, while control is enforced, a lot of issues are present and there is a higher percentage of project failure should any part of the bureaucratic structure fail during the creation process.  A 'bazar', on the other hand, is open to the eyes and investigation of the public. Much more support is available should something go awry and iterations on the product produce a stronger and more durable base at the project's conclusion. Therefore, my favorite quote from this essay is "Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow," since this has held true for basically every major project I've personally worked on. Any initial solution I create will probably be scrapped one day, and one shouldn't dwell on that. It's important to create a basis so that future solutions know what works and what doesn't, resulting in cleaner, better code in the future.

---

As for Godot, my teammates have started working on external projects not related to Godot's ecosystem. There are so many avenues of contribution for Godot. I'm glad we choose it if nothing else but for the sheer variety of potential ways to help. Personally, I'm not as interested in the particular project they picked, called Libre Aim, which is an FPS game aim trainer. 
Instead, I am working on porting another demo project, this time for in-app purchases. However, this process's C# API is even more depreciated than the multiplayer API and it's been quite a slow process. I'm not sure I'll be able to get this done in time before the class ends.