---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Industry Usage of Open Source & Project Continuation
---

Learning about Tidepool from Christopher was a pleasure. It was interesting how much Tidepool cared about transparency and the quality of life it provided for it's user-base, something I think is fairly unique when compared to how enterprises use open-source. 

<!--more-->

It makes sense that they would approach development with this code of ethics, since Tidepool's entire lifespan has been rooted in open-source development. If I remember correctly, they were a modification of another open-source project that eventually grew into a large scale product that focuses on an aspect of healthcare. Transparency in healthcare is essential, not only for customer wellbeing, but also user trust, something a regular company might not care about as much. As a non-profit, they also differ quite a lot from enterprise usage of open-source, they're not focused on making money and instead manage to wield open-source's nature to promote their product and spread their outreach, which I think is really commendable.

---

For our project, as a group, I think we're doing alright? We've made more PRs, some bigger contributions to code have also been made, but it's hard to tell how well we're doing and if we're on track due to the fluidity of open-source development in general. I wonder if it would benefit us as a group to be more proactive? I'm not sure if we should be prioritizing getting our hands on as many PRs as we can (which would involve working on many smaller things like documentation, etc.) or if we should be looking at bigger chunks of Godot that still need work. I've been going after bigger things, like the benchmarks and converting demos, one of the demos which I've finished this week. I feel that this is a bit more rewarding since I enjoy programming more than the managerial elements of creating a product, but we could have many more contributions if we focused on old issues that ended up being small changes. 

Personally, I think that I could actually be a bit more proactive. I'm more encouraged by the fact that I've completed something difficult recently, which was figuring out how Godot converted their multiplayer API from v3 to v4 without much documentation. I've submitted a PR and as soon as that gets approved, I'll probably try for completing another demo project.