---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Open Source Projects without a Codebase
---

To my surprise, there are a lot of open source projects that don't have a codebase. Many of them are creatively focused or documentation focused. I was already aware of wikis and other such online documentations as being open source, however it never occurred to me that media website like Flikr would also fall under this category.

<!--more-->

The project I ended up choosing for this class discussion was Dungeons and Dragons. Being such a popular game with creative elements, Wizards of the Coast originally allowed players to create their own resources, materials and intellectual property under a special license called the Open Gaming License. This license is not unlike the other open source software licenses like the MIT or GPL license. Following some controversy where the OGL was modified, these modifications were repealed and, now, D&D is also available under the Creative Commons License.

---

Godot development is going well, my teammates managed to make final changes to the external project they were working on, Libre Aim. Unfortunately, one of my teammates spent a lot of time trying to fix a major gameplay issue associated with Libre Aim that, sadly, resulted in a PR getting rejected by the maintainer. It was stated that the solution for the issue wasn't optimal and not what the maintainer preferred, which was why the PR was closed. Following this blow, it is unfortunate that we had to shift our attention on the presentation and are kind of ending on a lower note. However, I still think I'm likely to try and finish that Godot contribution for the in-app purchase demo I was working on even if I don't have time during the rest of the semester.