---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - GDC and Meeting Godot Maintainers!
---

This is the week after break, where I spent most of my spring break week at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco. While there, I actually got the chance to meet the Godot Maintainers in person along with one of my other teammates. 
<!--more-->
We asked them about Godot and what we as new contributors could be doing to have the most impact dispite our lack of in-depth knowledge about the engine. They told us that one of the most helpful things we could do is actually verify issues and test solutions. For example, if a new issue is opened stating a bug, we could pull their minimal recreation project and give it a try as well as try it in some other versions to see if it was a regression or not. On the other hand, for PRs, we could try to pull the PR branch and try the solution and see if there are any glaring issues. Regardless of what we find, we should comment on the PRs stating the results of our investigation, which gives maintainers two benefits, firstly, this PR is important and should be paid more attention to, and secondly, help the reviewers with the verification process.

Industry and open source has a lot of potential. As an engineer myself, there's a lot of benefits to being able to see code at a deeper level and be given the opportunity to understand how things are implemented. Working with a blackbox function can cause a lot of issues, especially for certain use cases, like in games or with graphics. Not knowing how something is implemented can mean that you're increasing the amount of computational power your code needs without even knowing. This is something I've never enjoyed working with certain APIs and I'm sure a lot of industry developers also don't enjoy this process. Having open source can potentially eliminate this problem and make developers much more efficient as well as give higher control to the company. Not to mention, the idea that other people have the opportunity to look at your code means that as a developers we probably want to write better, more legible and higher quality code. 