---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Finishing the Browser Extension
---

We finally finished our browser extension: [Tyler1ify](https://github.com/ossd-s24/tyler1ify), a joke extension where we put would put the face of a famous twitch streamer over YouTube thumbnails. It was an interesting, albeit short, process that I wish we could have spent a bit more time on. 

<!--more-->

Reflecting on the development process now that it's over, I think overall we worked well as a team and managed to achieve the goals that we set out at the beginning of the project. I have worked on a lot of group projects previously, mainly because of game development and my second major, but it came to a bit of a surprise to me that I ended up as the project manager for the team. While the idea for the extension wasn't mine, I was the one who kept track of all the tasks we had to do at every stage of the project. It was rewarding to learn that I could hold my own in this role, in which I'm not very familiar with, even if it was a short project.

I also learned a lot about open-source. One thing me and my team didn't consider going into this project is that we need lisencing for image use. Since we were using the likeness of an online personality, I'm still not sure how lisencing works in this context. We'll have to do a bit more research.

In terms of programming, I created the popup and the toggle feature. For the general project side of things, I also set up the project directory and related files, such as the base of the actual JavaScript files and the files nessasary for open-source. As for tools, I was pretty familiar with everything we did with the exception of the Firefox Debugging Console. Normally, console logs from extension popups don't appear in the Firefox Browser console, but you can allow them to appear if you set a flag in Firefox's `about:config`. One other thing I realized was that it's been a while since I worked on a JavaScript project and I'm quite rusty. I definetely should browse a few videos on the topic to refresh.

I think my favorite extensions from my classmates were: "studyTool" and "TikTock", although I like both for the opposite reason. "studyTool" I thought was funny and creative, it got a good laugh out of everyone in class. There's also potential in the future for development of an algorithm for getting the videos from YouTube instead of having hard-coded links which could be interesting. "TikTock" was something I'd actually use. I've been looking for good pomodoro timer applications for a while and still haven't really found one that works for me.
