---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Humanitarian Projects and Personal Contributions
---

This week we learned about Humanitarian or Social Good open source projects. We watched videos about 4 different areas of Humanitarian projects including: Healthcare, Agriculture, Education and Citizen Science. I watched the ones on education and I had actually never heard of OpenStax before. After learning about it I'm actually pretty envious, I've previously had to spend so much money on textbooks that we barely used 10% of the whole semester. 

<!--more-->
All of the projects discussed were pretty interesting, but I was surprised the most by the agriculture ones. There was a lot of hardware involved in those projects and I wasn't aware that including hardware in projects could still be open source. As far as the role I could play, this isn't related specifically to the projects mentioned in the videos but watching the videos about Education inspiried me, but I would love to create open source education games. As kids, learning certain topics can be difficult and when I was younger, I would learn things like coding through Jeroo and Scratch. I think there's a lot of potential in pursuing this kind of project.

As far as personal contributions go, I've been struggling. I've been trying to keep an eye on notable repositories that I use and things that I'm interested in, such as Godot, p5.js, pandas, etc., but many of the viable projects that involve coding have very few issues tagged with `good-first-issue` or similar tags. Even for other projects without these tags, a lot of the issues raised in open source projects have difficult problems that aren't suited for a newbie college programmer. However, hope isn't all lost, I've still managed to find some small things to add to so far.

Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap were surprisingly easy to contribute to. I was surprised that for a lot of even decently notable pages on Wikipedia, there weren't a lot of restrictions to edits you could make. It makes me wonder what really prevents people from sabatoging Wikipedia pages on a whim. I know that this was an issue when large influencers would play a game called "Wikipedia Races", where they would try to go from one Wikipedia page and click links until they get to a 'goal' page. Since these events were streamed live, viewers would sabatoge pages and remove the links to try and throw off the influencers. 
OpenStreetMap was similarily easy to contribute to however, I noticed as I was browsing my area, there were a lot of old addresses and locations left over from years ago that weren't removed. Things like old shops that went out of business recently. Yet, there were also some addresses that were pretty recent, I noticed a tea shop that opened a few months ago already placed on OpenStreetMap.

I am still a bit worried about my own skill set. As a novice, at least relative to the people working on these open source projects, I wonder how the many talent people who've poured a lot of time into maintaining these projects could have use for my work. However, I'm hopeful that next week I can contribute some code or at least report some issues. I've recently evaluated some potential projects and have pulled them to run and test locally on my machine.
