---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Code of Conduct
---

A Code of Conduct (CoC) is a document that lists the standard of behavior expected from the community contributing to an open source project, as well as the consequences should bad behavior occur. It is intended to encourage and foster a supportive community, which in turn should also improve collaboration.

<!--more-->

I believe that a Code of Conduct document can overall have a positive impact on a FOSS community, I don't believe it is essential. Code of Conducts are only as good as the people who can enforce them, moderation could fail and overlook individuals or policing interactions based off vague statments from CoCs could even cause turmoil in the community. Not only that, it's just unrealistic to expect a squeaky-clean community at all times. There are definitely some ways to automate the process for big communities, whether that be banning certain words or flagging posts, but even then these methods could falsely flag and just create more work for maintainers and admins. 
Personally, I would work on a project without a CoC, I like to believe that most people I interact with on my day to day have good intentions. If I do encounter malicious comments or conversations, I find that it doesn't really affect me. My goal working with FOSS is to contribute to the community positively and to learn, if someone is rude, I just hope the next person won't be as uninviting. If the community as a whole is rude, maybe then I would rethink working on a particular FOSS.
Many projects have good communities with or without CoCs, and I'm sure some FOSS with COCs have lackluster communities as well. It all kind of depends on what you as a individual can handle and, if push comes to shove, if the community you're trying to join will support you in a less than ideal situation.